Title: >7 months on
Date: 2008-04-14 20:23
Author: mongrol
Category: The Skreegs
Tags: Miniskreeg
Slug: 7-months-on

\>Hard to believe Cooper is 7 months old now. When I look at him now its
very hard to remember the little baby he used to be. He's changed so
much and is more a little boy now than a baby. He's still got the cold
and has done ever since he started daycare. Toblerones are few and far
between as well which makes us worry slightly about another relapse into
compact bowel mode. That gets less every day but its always in the backs
of our minds when he's screaming for something.

He's also not very good at sleeping through. We've more or less put this
down to not eating enough, or we're not feeding him enough. He doesn't
get a lot of meat and that has a lot of energy in it which is harder to
digest. Last night he got some processed meaty jar thing mixed with baby
pasta. It was so thick and heavy his little belly was distended and he
couldn't finish it but he still managed a yoghurt and a 250ml bottle of
milk after it. No more could be done and this was our last best hope for
a good nights sleep. He was still up at midnight for a wee snack and up
at 5am this morning. Too early, too early in anyones language.

It's best not to be too bothered by this. Yes it would be great to get a
full nights sleep and even better to not have to get up till 6.30 but
he's still a good kid and sleeping patterns change constantly. We seem
to conveniently forget that we're still really only at the start of this
adventure and that its still an ever changing game.

I seem to have neglected this blog over the last year so when I publish
new vids I'm going to put them here and that might make me write a bit
more. Oh look, here's one coming now!

[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3\_tHIL50fIc]
