Title: >Gadget Detox
Date: 2007-06-24 09:43
Author: mongrol
Category: The Skreegs
Tags: Tech
Slug: gadget-detox

\>For some bizarre reason I decided to spend the entire week free of
gadgets. No mobile phone, no mp3 player, no nintendo DS and no computer
at home for 7 days. Is this actually possible for a Type A personality
that's been gaming since 1982? No it's not.

Last Sunday went ok. I got on with some DIY, dug a hole, found a pipe,
broke a pipe, fixed a pipe then realised the pipe was in the wrong place
so it was no use to me anyway. I then decided to change the diff and
gear oil in the beast only to be thwarted by the lack of available
information on oil capacity levels. Levels of which are containted in a
certain PDF upstairs on a now inaccessible machine. Ah well. Then it was
TV veg time so I survived that day.

Monday was a bit trickier. Haz was late shift Monday and Tuesday so I
had to make it alone in a house surrounded by gadgets from 5pm till it
was time for Wushu at 8pm. I passed the time by watching TV (the bad
news mainly), reading comics of which I'd recently received a big order,
reading a book and doing a bit of drawing. Then off to wushu to get
holes poked in me by some newbie who didn't realise it was generally a
non-contact sport, else people get hurt. Ah well. Tuesday was much the
same. More comics, more drawing, more reading and meditating. Very
relaxing.

The latter half of the week was more difficult. Since Skreegette is in
the house I don't have the luxury of doing whatever I feel like.
Interaction is inevitable and with the TV being on most of the time
comics and meditating is rendered almost impossible. This poses a
paradox. Hazel is entertained by the TV (relatively) and if it's on I
must provide that entertainment. However, if the TV's on I can't do
quiet stuff and if it's off I still can't do quiet stuff. I'm sure
there's a sensible solution to this that probably involves me not
sitting infront of a keyboard. :)

Saturday burst the bubble as a builder was coming round for a look at
the house and I had to have a mobile with me in case he phoned. I think
it's a shame that our lifestyle is made so much easier by these devices
that the inconvenience of being without them overshadows the
tranquillity of leaving them behind. I've had an interesting week and
found myself much more relaxed and was surprised I even got some drawing
done for once. It did bring home the difficulty of entertaining
ourselves without TV. Once you turn it off there's this gap to fill and
I realise now that this is a gap Hazel sees much more often than me.
