---
Title: "Cooper James Hamilton. The Birth."
Date: 2007-09-17
Author: "mongrol"
Categories: ["The Skreegs"]
Tags: ["Miniskreeg"]
---

Cooper James Hamilton was born on 11/09/2007 at 18.10 weighing 8lbs
9oz and this is his story.

**Monday 5am**  
Mum jumps out of bed having felt her waters break. Excitement takes
hold, we phone the hospital and they tell us to come in. We, probably
naively, phone relatives and we get into the hospital at about 7am. An
examination ensues and membranes are still present over the babies head.
Waters can break up behind the babies head but though they can't confirm
this they treat it like it's broken anyway. Because of the risk of
infection they give us 24 hours to start labour or she'll be induced.
We're told she's 1cm dilated and thinned to 1/2cm. This pleases us and
we go home.

**Monday 10am**  
Mum starts getting contractions. We get excited and during the day we do
some "duck ponding". Man and pregnant woman walking around a bit outside
slowly pondering on whats to come and occasionally bending over in pain.

**Monday 3pm**  
The contractions fade away and stop. This is a concern as we do not want
induction after hearing how intense it can be.

**Monday 5pm**  
Contractions start again! We sussed out that earlier that morning Hazel
was lying on her side. She does this again and bam, they kick off again.
We're both quite surprised by how painful they are but she manages to
struggle on to 2am until they are about 5 minutes apart. Too painful to
suffer any longer, we head for the hospital.

**Tuesday 2am**  
We get in, meet a male midwife and are shown to our lovely public
delivery suite. A place we were quite familiar with already having been
there at the 20 week mark. We sit, wondering what's to come. She has an
examination and told she's 3cm dilated. Pretty good.

**Tuesday 5am**  
Hazel is now on the nitrous oxide. She puffs on it through contractions
but the big ones still make her squeal. They are clearly extremely
painful and I found this so hard to watch. We're both caught by surprise
by how painful this is and we weren't even at the active labour bit yet.
The contractions also aren't settling into a rhythm.

**Tuesday 7am**  
A new midwife starts with a male student midwife in tow. Hazel is
examined and we're told the baby could be OP (facing the wrong way). The
midwifes are a bit unsure about this and also think he might be facing
kinda sideways. I start mentioning epidurals and get slightly dismissive
responses. Hazel meanwhile is sucking on gas like it's a new friend
which makes conversation difficult. For 30 seconds after a contraction
she talks gibberish and seems to have a problem who said what and more
importantly, when they said it. This concerns me as she can't make a
sensible decision about pain relief.

I escape to get a coffee. I sit outside and cry for her.

**Tuesday 10.30am**  
Madness has finally landed. The midwives have her on the bed and want to
examine her in new and interesting ways. We know by this time that the
contractions are not normal. They rise and fall randomly but sometimes
do not fall at all. One contraction flows into the next, especially as
they move her around for examinations. She's sucking on gas like oxygen
never existed, screams and whimpers, stops between contractions when she
can and asks me what's going on and why everything is so weird. I'm
helpless and it kills me. A doctor comes in and there's talk about the
position of the baby. They attach a probe to bubs head as they can't get
the outside monitors to work. The probe falls off 10 minutes later and
they attach another one, causing Hazel more pain.

I need Hazel to ask for an epidural. We take the gas off her to get her
head clear and she needs to sit through a couple of contractions with
nothing. She screams for her gas, we don't give it to her. This is the
hardest thing I've ever done.

The doctor steals my moment of "Hazel Clarity" to talk about some other
stuff and she ends up back on the gas before I get her to ask for an
epidural. More frustration. But some miracle happens and some 5 minutes
later she says "I want an epidural!" At last, some civility!

**Tuesday 11.40am**  
The anesthetist has taken an hour to get to Hazel. Meanwhile she's been
given pethedine which has helped a little. When she finally gets the
epidural in there is blessed relief and suddenly everything is calm for
the first time in hours. She has a sleep. I have a sleep.

**Tuesday 2pm**  
Hazel is examined again. Every vaginal examination increases the risk of
infection to the baby. They find that the membrane over the babies head
is still intact and she has still only dilated to 4cm. I can't believe
it! This should have been discovered on the first VE and removed. They
get the crochet hook out and burst the membrane. Aha, that feels
different, there's hair there now.

**Tuesday 4pm**  
Another VE and another probe onto bubs head as they keep falling off.
This time we're stunned when we find out she's dilated to 9cm! Woah. A
grope around the belly from another more experienced midwife (2nd
opinion) reveals bub is directly OP with full limbs facing out the way.
We're told that 95% of OP babies turn at the push. More calmness and
muttering behind curtains from midwives.

**Tuesday 5.30pm**  
It's push time. A quick VE reveals a fully dilated cervix. Hazel is
instructed on pushing and off we go. The epidural is bang on and she has
good sensations of pressure for pushing. The contractions are still
random and some are too soft for a good push. Bub's heart-rate rises to
around 180bpm and stays constant. The midwives don't like this and calls
in the reg. Instead we get the consultant and she tells us bub has to
come out pretty sharpish and asks if we can use the von-tuse (no idea on
the spelling of that) suction. We agree.

The reg turns up and a pediatrician. The consultant sticks around and
keeps charge of the delivery. The place is rapidly filling up with
people. We have 3 pushes with suction with success. The baby hasn't
turned around and his head cannot come out in the optimal direction. The
consultant requests to use forceps and we agree. As if we'd say
otherwise?. We use every contraction, weak or not and the consultant
pulls like she's changing a truck tyre. Levering up and down and pulling
with her weight.

Eventually Cooper's head appears facing straight upwards. His body
appears on the next push and I don't get time to think. He's whupped
onto Hazel's chest for about 2 seconds skin to skin. They shout at me
repeatedly to cut the cord which I do. He's then whipped off Hazel and
away round the corner onto a tray. I'm told to follow.

He's on the tray with a few people rubbing him like a kitten. He's grey
and not breathing. At this point I'm not alarmed. My brains are still
trying to catch up. He's still not breathing and they use the little
oxygen mask pump, suction his lungs, more pump, more suction, more
kitten rubbing. I start to realise that this isn't how it normally goes
and I finally get an inkling just how serious this birth has been.
Eventually, after 5 minutes he breaths his first breath. It's tiny, fast
and makes a little hitching noise.

Hazel at last gets to hold him for a couple of minutes before he's taken
away to the Special Care Nursery. 20 minutes later the Pediatrician
comes back and talks to us about babies natural birth processes and
their defense mechanisms in times of distress. I'm then taken to the
nursery and see a now pink Cooper lying on his stomach in a thermacot
with a drip and monitor wires. He looks straight at me through the glass
and mouths around looking for food. The nurses give me good news
regarding his oxygen saturation (98%) and I feel very pleased that he's
bouncing back already.

**Tuesday 7.30pm**  
Hazel gets cleaned up and wheelchair bound we go to visit him together.
He's looking even more healthy looking with his purple feet faded to a
healthy pink. He's still mouthing very actively. The consultant pede
happens to walk by and seeing his antics is convinced he should be let
out of the tank to try and feed. He latches straight away and has a good
guzzle for 5 minutes each side. Just what he needed.

**Thursday 3am**  
Hazel is brought a visitor from Special Care. Cooper is finally released
(or evicted for causing too much noise) and given a clear bill of
health. He still bears the wounds of his experience with suction marks,
forceps scrapes, bruising and a weird looking head but he's already
almost at 100%. Hazel and Cooper are natural at breast feeding. A lucky
turn which I think is well deserved considering what they've both
endured.

**Monday 17th 8pm**  
Cooper is now 5 days old and we're having a great time. Lack of sleep
and the love we're feeling constantly fills us with laughter. Our lives
once again, change irrevocably, and we're embarking yet again on another
big adventure. This time though, instead of traveling the planet, we're
traveling through a new life. Let the fun begin!

{% img /static/images/img_1362.jpg 640 %}
