---
Title: ">Blather #1"
Date: 2008-05-28
Author: "mongrol"
Categories: ["The Skreegs"]
Tags: ["Blather"]
---

\>Today's an oddly grey day and apparently its supposed to rain all
week. We get so used to Brisbane weather with its clear blue skies and
comfortable temperatures during the non-summer months that its actually
surprising and a little perplexing when its overcast. Its just so
unusual to see.

I'm off ill yesterday and today with what is an excellent effort by
Cooper to kill off his dad with exotic diseases from daycare. I've been
almost deaf in one ear for about a week and the last two days I've had
toothache through blocked sinusy tubes in my head. I can't believe how
sick I've been since we got back from Scotland. At least 1 day off a
fortnight since January all through having some lergy that "the carrier"
has brought back from his "brothers" at "the lab". When does it end?
Very shortly I imagine since I have no sick leave left.

The toybox is progressing. Got sides cut and had a practise at some
finger joints. Dovetails are too tricky with plywood so fingers it will
be. Fairly easy to do and strong enough too. Had a praccy at manual
routing for the base but that's going to take time and be ugly. Plywood
just splits all over the place and I'm not buying a leccy router for one
job.

Talking of buying stuff, now we're officially mortgaged up to the
gunnels we can get a good indication of how much money we don't have to
spend. Some budgeting is in order and I've forced an envelope style
budgeting method into [Moneydance][]. It was a bit tricky but I think
I've got it sussed. At the very least I can get an accurate picture of
just how skint we actually are. It's [cleanskins][] from now on! oink!

  [Moneydance]: http://www.moneydance.com
  [cleanskins]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cleanskin_%28wine%29
